Document some quirks with Python otel operator based auto-instrumentation (#5338)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/zero-code/python/operator.md

linkTitle: Operator
aliases: [/docs/languages/python/automatic/operator]
weight: 30
cSpell:ignore: distro grpcio mkdir psutil uninstrumented virtualenv
---

If you run your Python service in Kubernetes, you can take advantage of the
[OpenTelemetry Operator](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-operator)
to inject auto-instrumentation without having to modify each of your services
directly.
[See the OpenTelemetry Operator Auto-instrumentation docs for more details.](/docs/kubernetes/operator/automatic/)

> ### Things to know

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Considerations
```

Just a suggestion.

Author: What about something like `Python specific topics`?

#### Libraries with binary wheels

> Some Python packages we instrument (e.g. `grpcio`) or need in our
> instrumentation libraries (e.g. `psutil` for
> `opentelemetry-instrumentation-system-metrics`) may ship with some binary code.
> This binary code usually is tied to a specific C library version (glibc or musl)
> and to a specific Python version. The
> [OpenTelemetry Operator](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-operator)
> currently provides images for a single Python version based on the glibc C
> library so if you want to use it you'll probably need to build your own image
> operator docker image for Python auto-instrumentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some Python packages we instrument or need in our
instrumentation libraries, might ship with some binary code. This is
the case, for example, of `grpcio` and `psutil`.

The binary code is tied to a specific C library version (glibc or musl)
and to a specific Python version. The
[OpenTelemetry Operator](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-operator)
provides images for a single Python version based on the glibc C
library. If you want to use it you might need to build your own image
operator Docker image for Python auto-instrumentation.
```

Author: I would like to keep the reference to `opentelemetry-instrumentation-system-metrics` because psutil is a dependency of it and so not recognizable to the end user I think

Author: Something like this:

```
This is the case, for example, of `grpcio` and `psutil` (used in `opentelemetry-instrumentation-system-metrics`).
```

linkTitle: Operator
aliases: [/docs/languages/python/automatic/operator]
weight: 30
cSpell:ignore: distro grpcio mkdir psutil uninstrumented virtualenv
---

If you run your Python service in Kubernetes, you can take advantage of the
[OpenTelemetry Operator](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-operator)
to inject auto-instrumentation without having to modify each of your services
directly.
[See the OpenTelemetry Operator Auto-instrumentation docs for more details.](/docs/kubernetes/operator/automatic/)

> ### Things to know

Author: ```suggestion
### Python specific topics
```

> ### Python specific topics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Python-specific topics
```

#### Libraries with binary wheels

Some Python packages we instrument or need in our
instrumentation libraries, might ship with some binary code. This is

> the case, for example, of `grpcio` and `psutil`.

Author: ```suggestion
the case, for example, of `grpcio` and `psutil` (used in `opentelemetry-instrumentation-system-metrics`).
```

> Some Python packages we instrument or need in our instrumentation libraries,
> might ship with some binary code. This is the case, for example, of `grpcio` and
> `psutil` (used in `opentelemetry-instrumentation-system-metrics`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some Python packages we instrument or need in our instrumentation libraries
might ship with some binary code. This is the case, for example, with `grpcio` and
`psutil`, which are used in `opentelemetry-instrumentation-system-metrics`.
```

Author: Only psutil is used in the system metrics package, grpcio is used generally in the exporters or in its own instrumentation library.

The binary code is tied to a specific C library version (glibc or musl) and to a
specific Python version. The
[OpenTelemetry Operator](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-operator)
provides images for a single Python version based on the glibc C library. If you

> want to use it you might need to build your own image operator Docker image for
> Python auto-instrumentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
want to use it, you might need to build your own image operator Docker image for
Python autoinstrumentation.
```

Author: It's spelled auto-instrumentation in other places

Reviewer 3: If I remember correctly we have an issue for fixing that at once, I think it is fine to keep it that way
